this lecture is about the natural energy
content analysis natural remedy content
analysis is the foundation of text
mining so we're going to first talk
about this and in particular nature
language processing with the fact that
how we can represent text data and this
determines what algorithms can be used
to analyze and mind text data we're
going to take a look at the the basic
concepts in natural remedy first I'm
going to explain these concepts using a
simple example that you are seeing here
a dog is chasing a boy on the playground
now this is a very simple sentence when
we read such a sentence we don't have to
think about it to get meaning of it but
when a computer has to understand the
descendants the computer has go through
several steps first the computer needs
to know what are the words how to
segment in the words in English this is
very easy and we can just look at the
space and then the computer would need
to know the categories of these words
syntactical categories so for example
dog is a noun
chasing the verb boys and now etc and
this is called a lexical analysis in
particular tagging these words with
these syntactic categories is called a
part of speech tagging after that the
computer also needs to figure out the
relation between these words so a and
the dog would form a noun phrase on the
playground would be a prepositional
phrase etc and there is certain way for
them to be connected together in order
to regenerate the meaning some other
combinations may not make sense and this
would this is called syntactic parsing
or syntactic analysis or pausing of
natural energy sentence
the outcome is a past tree that you are
seeing here that tells us the structure
of the sentence so that we know how we
can interpret the sentence but this is
about semantics yet so in order to get
the meaning would have to map these
phrases and these structures into some
real world entities that we have in our
mind so table is a concept that we know
and a boy is a concept that we know so
connecting these phrases with what we
know is understandable now for computer
would have to formally represent these
and it is by using symbols so table t1
means t1 is a dog boy b1 b1 refers to a
boy etc and we also represented the
chasing action as a predicate so chasing
with is a practical with three arguments
D 1 and B 1 and P 1 which is a
playground so this is a formal return
listing of the semantics of the sentence
once we reach that level of
understanding we might also make
inferences for example if we assume
there's a rule that says if someone has
been changed then the person can get
scared then we can infer this boy might
be scared this is the infer the meaning
based on my own additional knowledge and
finally we might even further to infer
my might further info what this sentence
is requesting or why the person who say
the sentence is saying the sentence and
so this has to do with understanding the
purpose of saying this sentence and this
is called a speech act analysis or
pragmatic analysis which refers to the
use of language so in this case a person
saying this might be reminding another
person to bring back the dark and so
this means when saying a sentence the
person actually takes the action so the
action here is to make a request
now this advice clearly shows that in
order to really understand the sentence
there are a lot of things that the
computer has to do now in general it's
very hard for the computer to do
everything especially if we wanted to do
everything correctly now this is very
difficult now the many reason why that
remember processing is very difficult
it's because it's designed to make human
communications efficient as a result for
example we omit a lot of common-sense
knowledge because we assume all the all
of us have this knowledge there's no
need to encode this knowledge and that
makes communication efficient we also
keep a lot of ambiguities like
ambiguities of words and this is again
because we assume we have the ability to
disambiguate a world so there's no
problem with having the same word to
mean possibly different things in
different context yet for a computer
this would be very difficult because the
computer does not have the common sense
knowledge that we do so the computer
would be confused indeed and this makes
it hard for natural processing indeed it
makes it very hard for every step in the
slide that I showed earlier
ambiguity is a main killer
meaning that in every step there are
multiple choices and the computer would
have to decide what's the right choice
and that decision can be very difficult
as you will see also in the moment and
in general we need common sense
reasoning in order to fully understand
the natural memory and computers today
don't yet have that and that's why it's
a
hard for computers to precisely
understand the natural language at this
point so here are some specific examples
of challenges I think about the world
lemmo ambiguity a world like a design
can be a noun or a verb so if God
ambiguous part of speech tap root has
also multiple meanings and it can be of
mathematical sense like in the square
root or they can be the root of a plant
syntactic ambiguity refers to different
interpretations of the different of a
sentence in terms of structures so for
example natural language processing can
should be interpreted in two ways so one
is the ordinary meaning that we will be
getting as we're talking about this
topic so it's processing of natural
remedy but there is also another
possible interpretation which is to say
there with processing is natural now we
don't generally have this problem but
imagine for once the computer to
determine the structure the computer
would have to have to make a choice
between the two another classic example
is a man saw a boy with the telescope
this ambiguity lies in the question who
had a telescope this is called the
prepositional phrase attachment and
beginning many where to attach this
prepositional phrase with the telescope
should in the modified boy or should it
be modifying so the verb
another problem is never as rushing in
John persuader bill to buy a TV for
himself does himself refer to John or
bill presupposition is another
difficulty he has quit smoking in price
that he smoked before and we need to
have such a knowledge in order to
understand man we
because of these problems the
state-of-the-art natural and processing
techniques cannot do anything perfectly
even for the simplest part of speech
tagging we still cannot solve the whole
problem the accuracy that I listed here
which is about 97 percent it was just
taken from some studies earlier and
these studies obviously have to be using
particular datasets so the numbers here
are not really meaningful if you take it
out of the context from data set that
they are used for evaluation but I show
these numbers mainly to give you some
sense about the accuracy or how well we
can do things like this it doesn't mean
on any there are certain accuracy would
be precisely 97 percent but in general
we can do part of speech tagging fairly
well although not perfectly pausing
would be more difficult but for partial
pausing meaning to get let's say some
phrases correct we can probably achieve
9 percent or better accuracy but to get
the complete pause she correctly is
still very very difficult for semantic
analysis we also do some aspects of
semantic amends particularly extraction
of entities and religions for example
recognizing this is the person that's
location and this person and that person
met in some place etc we can also do
more sense disambiguation some extent we
can figure out the currents of route in
this sentence refers to the mathematical
sense
etc sentiment analysis is another aspect
of semantic analysis that we can do that
means we can pair the sentence as
general positive when it's talking about
the product
talking about the person inference
however is very hard and and we
generally cannot do that for any big
domain and it's only feasible for very
limited domain and that's a generally
difficult problem not fitting in
tangents Spiti Act analysis is also very
difficult and we calmly do this properly
for very specialized for cases and with
a lot of help from your man to annotate
enough data for the computer to to learn
from so the slide also shows that
computers are far from being able to
understand natural language precisely
and that also explains why the text
mining problem is difficult because we
cannot rely on mechanical approaches or
computational methods to understand the
language precisely therefore we have to
use whatever we have today particular
statistical machine learning methods or
statistical analysis methods to try to
get as much meaning out from the text as
possible and later you will see that
there are actually many such algorithms
that can indeed extract the interesting
knowledge from text even though we
cannot really fully understand the
meaning of all the natural remedy
sentences precisely